---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-23T14:28:47.706Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-23T14:28:36.426Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-23-45da177b-3be9-4136-8228-f334333c52df.md
published: true
url: 45da177b-3be9-4136-8228-f334333c52df/index.html
_type: Article

---
Earlier this year, I attended an eye-opening conference for entrepreneurs in Chicago. The day was chock full of speakers who had founded some of the most successful new enterprises of the last decade, not to mention branding and marketing experts from some of the biggest names in the business. There was a variety of great business advice being doled out, yet all these leaders agreed on one central point.

Namely, that companies and brands, now more than ever, are about relationships first.

[Hilary Folger, partner in brand strategy at Lippincottt][0], said it best: 

"People want authenticity in their relationships, so why should your brand or company offer anything different?" In other words, no matter your industry, you have to connect on a personal level with your consumers (or, as they called them at the conference: your "advocates"). As you read my list, think about how the video strategy I'm explaining is exactly that - a mirror for how we build lasting personal relationships in our everyday life. 

1\. DON'T COME ON TOO STRONG

When you first present video content to your prospective advocate, make sure you're just saying 'hi' and indicating that you are interesting (or cool, or funny, or smart, or well-informed) enough for them to want to get to know you better. Why, just the other day, I went to a pitch meeting where a green energy company was looking for investors to help them launch a 20 million dollar natural gas technology in South Dakota that, they claimed, would revolutionize the industry and cut emissions at drilling sites by 40%. They presented their whole pitch, full of all the data and fancy graphics they could muster. I sat through a dazzling 45-minute powerpoint and an equally impressive tour of their facility. When they called me 3 days later to follow up, I invited their head of sales out for some wings at a local joint, where I made him promise we would talk about things other than the sales pitch. I sensed that I liked the guy, but he'd never even taken the time to hop down off his salesman soap box and make a human connection. I had to do it for him...

2\. TALK WITH not AT

Ever been to a party where you spoke with people for hours and no one even asked you where you were from? Ever met that person who is hilarious, but after 45 minutes you find yourself wondering if they've got anything but jokes in their bag of tricks? In many ways, what we're talking about here is the art of conversation - an art that translates to video marketing as well. Offer the person you're talking to something they value. If you're just working on your first tier of the funnel, let's say your first 3, 9-second clips for social media streams, think about that as the opportunity to talk with your customer. Share a nice hello and offer them a useful statistic to get them started. Or else, share with them a feeling that you know we all can rally around. Here's a 12-second pitch I might use, to start a converstion with honest feeling.

3\. TO INFORM or ENTERTAIN?

Fundamentally, we are drawn to 2 types of people - those who guide us and those who intrigue us. This is why the best bosses are often the best teachers: they demonstrate to their employees lessons and insights that the employees feel lucky to receive. As you move from your short pitch to the second tier of your funnel, where you start to strengthen the relationship with your potential advocate, decide how you want them to perceive you. All things being equal, in the long run it's better to be seen as a source of valuable information than as a source of crazy hijinks. In the moment, we're often drawn to the funny person in the room. But, in the long run, we feel more comfortable sticking with the person who is full of useful knowledge and who is applying that knowledge effectively. Remember, as in relationships, we are ultimately seeking stability and reliability. Ever had that crazy relationship with someone who kept you guessing, and when you finally left them, you found a person who you knew, day in and day out, would be there for you? Remember that amazing sense of relief and calm that washed over you when you realized that they had your back? Well, gosh, why should your brand or company be any different? 

4\. KEEP IT FRESH

Today, it is a truism that if you embark on a video marketing strategy, you have to stick with it. You can't just produce 3 short videos and call it a day. In the video marketing business, we no longer do one-offs; we think like media channel programmers. The good news is that you can create a lot of fun, cheap content just to stay on people's radar and on their news feeds. The "bad" news is that you also need to take the time to develop more interesting, engaging video projects. Well, it's not "bad" news at all, really. It's where your video marketing team gets the chance to shine, and deliver you something you never dreamed you'd produce. With a positive approach and repetition, your advocates will want to know you - just as they would another person who brought them positivity and benefits on a regular basis. 

5\. ALWAYS GIVE THEM SOMETHING TO LOOK FORWARD TO

This one is true of all marketing material, written and otherwise. At the end of each and every video, you need to give your viewer a call-to-action. Maybe it's something simple like encouraging them to watch another video. Maybe you tell them about an upcoming event or promotion. Give them a task, something to think about...anything. This sort of drives the point home about develop an entire channel of content, doesn't it? If you have no more videos to show them, they'll probably wander off. Just like with friends, huh?Our good friends always give us more to do and more to think about. They aren't static, so your brand shouldn't be either. 

So remember, think like a genuine human being, and you'll probably come out a winner with your video marketing strategy. Funny, isn't it? We get so mixed up in all these bells and whistles that we forget a simple truth. Have fun creating your channel of content and putting that great energy and passion out onto the web for all to see! 

[0]: http://www.lippincott.com/en/people/hilary-folger